































International Master's Scholarships Program IDEX | Université Paris-Saclay









Aller au contenu principal






Other websites

UFR Droit Economie Gestion
UFR Sciences
UFR Médecine
UFR Pharmacie
UFR Sciences du Sport
Polytech Université Paris-Saclay
IUT Cachan
IUT Orsay
IUT Sceaux
AgroParisTech
CentraleSupélec
ENS Paris-Saclay
Institut d'Optique



Accessibility

Accessibility




English
en


FrançaisEnglish












Other websites

UFR Droit Economie Gestion
UFR Sciences
UFR Médecine
UFR Pharmacie
UFR Sciences du Sport
Polytech Université Paris-Saclay
IUT Cachan
IUT Orsay
IUT Sceaux
AgroParisTech
CentraleSupélec
ENS Paris-Saclay
Institut d'Optique



Accessibility

Accessibility




English
en


FrançaisEnglish


 




Admissions




                            Admissions
                        



Applying for undergraduate programmes




Applying for Master's programmes




Applying for a PhD




International students




Tuition fees




Scholarships and financial support






Education




                            Education
                        



French Higher Education System




Undergraduate programmes




Master's programmes




Master’s programmes taught in English




Summer Schools




Internationalisation, languages and cultures






Research




                            Research
                        



Themes and organisation




Doctorate




Pascal Institute




Poléthis - Ethics and Integrity




At your service




International programmes




Research programmes




Researcher Portraits






Collaborations




                            Collaborations
                        



International




Expertise and skills




Design






Campus life




                            Campus life
                        



International welcome desk




Libraries




Arts and sport




Accommodation




International mentoring programme




Catering services




Student health services






About




                            About
                        



About us




Campus maps and transportation




Governance




Media










Search












Menu principal






















Coronavirus (covid-19): Masks are mandatory indoors. Stay vigilant and don't forget the safety measures



Fermer






Home


                      Admission
                  

                      Bourses et aides financieres
                  

                      International Master's Scholarships Program IDEX
                  







  International Master's Scholarships Program IDEX

                  




 

Print this article



        Share this article 


Facebook Twitter LinkedIn










Academic Year 2021-2022
Université Paris-Saclay aims to promote access for international students to its Master’s programmes, provided by its faculties, component-institutions and associated universities, and to make it easier for highly-qualified international students to join the University, especially for those wishing to develop an academic project through research up to the doctoral level.
Scholarships will be awarded for the 2021-2022 academic year. Established with the IDEX funding of the 3rd Programme Investissements d’Avenir, and based on academic achievements, these scholarships are aimed at students admitted to a Master’s programme delivered by Université Paris-Saclay and provided by one of the following insitutions: AgroParisTech, CentraleSupelec, Ecole Normale Supérieure Paris-Saclay (ENS Paris-Saclay), INSTN-CEA, Institut d’Optique Graduate School (IOGS), Université d’Evry-Val-d’Essonne (UEVE), Université Paris-Saclay (UPSaclay), Université de Versailles-Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines (UVSQ).
These scholarships are awarded for 1 or 2 years to students enrolled in a Master’s programme at Université Paris-Saclay, depending on their admission level (M1 or M2), and subject to completion of the required number of credits to go through to the following year of study.


UPSaclay Scholarship Procedure 2021-2022 - (pdf 153.73 KB)

 




Application timeline:
- Deadline for receipt of full applications: 16 May 2021- Announcement of results: end of June 2021
Pre-Selection Process:
Admission to a Master’s programme does not automatically entitle students to a scholarship.
For more information, please see the Eligibility criteria.
Students eligible for a Université Paris-Saclay IDEX scholarship will be selected by the admission panel among those students admitted to a Université Paris-Saclay Master’s programme.Only students who receive an email from Université Paris-Saclay inviting them to apply for a Université Paris-Saclay IDEX scholarship will be able to submit an application.No unsolicited application will be accepted.
Application Procedure:
1) Selected students will automatically be sent a link by email to an online application form.
Upon receipt of this email, students wishing to apply will need to complete the online application form and provide (mandatory) the names of two references who would be willing to submit a reference for the candidate (director of studies, professor, internship coordinator…).
2) Each of the two references named by the candidate will be sent a link by email to an online recommendation form. They will be asked to complete and submit the form prior to the closing day of the scholarship call.
The candidate will automatically be informed when each reference has submitted the form.
3) The application file for a scholarship will be considered complete when both recommendation forms have been submitted by the two references.Please note: the candidate will not receive a message confirming that the application is complete.
It is up to the candidate to ensure both references complete and submit the form by the deadline given in the invitation email.
Applications that are incomplete or received after the deadline will automatically be rejected.
Eligibility criteria:
Are eligible:
- Students admitted to a Université Paris-Saclay Master’s programme delivered by one of the following institutions: AgroParisTech, CentraleSupelec, ENS Paris-Saclay, INSTN-CEA, IOGS, UEVE, UPSaclay, UVSQ. Among these students, only those who answer one of the following criteria are eligible to apply:
- Newly arrived international students, aged 30 and less during the course of the selection year.
- Students of foreign nationality living on the French soil for less than a year, previously or currently enrolled in a training course or internship that does not lead to certification.
- Students of foreign nationality living on the French soil for less than a year, taking language classes (type FFL).
- Students who have lived in France in the past, within the framework of a mobility programme during their studies (e.g. Erasmus Mundus Joint Master’s Degrees, exchange programme…) that did not lead to certification.
Are ineligible:
- All students who have been or who are enrolled in a French higher education institution during their studies, except international students enrolled in a French higher education institution abroad.
- Students who have interrupted their studies for more than 3 consecutive years.
- Students receiving any other type of funding whose amount exceeds 650€ per month.
Programmes / Fields:
- All academic fields are concerned.
- All Master’s programmes for which Université Paris-Saclay is accredited, except for vocational training.
Selection of laureates, evaluation criteria:
Reminder: admission to a Master’s programme does not automatically entitle students to a scholarship.
The selection of laureates falls within the scope of a jury made up of experts from the faculties, component-institutions and associated universities of Université Paris-Saclay. 
The evaluation criteria take in account the following:
- Academic level,
- Personal project,
- Specifically, for students enrolled in an M2 programme: written motivation to pursue a thesis in a Université Paris-Saclay laboratory.
Amount and payment of the scholarship:
The amount of the Université Paris-Saclay scholarship is 10,000€ per year. It is paid by Université Paris-Saclay for the duration of the academic year, and for a period of 10 consecutive months (September to June).
A maximum of 1,000€ for travel and visa expenses can also be awarded depending on the candidate’s country of origin.
Laureates will receive their scholarship as well as travel expenses only upon arrival in France and once they have enrolled in the programme to which they were admitted.
No advance payment can be made.
Course Attendance and academic mobility:
- Selected students must follow the programme for which their scholarship was awarded in one of the faculties, component-institutions and associated universities of Université Paris-Saclay.
- The scholarship can be suspended in case of repeated absence without due justification.
- The scholarship will be suspended, without possibility for deferment, during the period of time the student attends courses in an institution outside Université Paris-Saclay (in France or abroad).
- Payment of the scholarship will be continued within the frame of compulsory mobility required by some Université Paris-Saclay programmes, or international university exchange programmes between Université Paris-Saclay and its partners (double degree with compulsory mobility, Erasmus Mundus Joint Master’s Degrees…). This compulsory mobility cannot be carried out in the student’s country or institution of origin.
- Payment of the scholarship will be suspended for any student mobility outside compulsory mobility.
- Placement years are authorized but not funded.
Internship:
- Internships in research laboratories must be done in one of the Université Paris-Saclay research laboratories. Outside this framework, the scholarship will be suspended throughout the period of internship with no possibility for deferment.
- Internships in companies must be carried out in France.
- The scholarship will be suspended if internship wages exceed 650€/month.
Results:
All applicants to the scholarship programme will be informed by email of the jury’s decision.
Upon receiving the confirmation email, students will have 8 days to accept or refuse the scholarship. If students fail to respond within this timeframe, they will be deemed as having refused the scholarship.
Université Paris-Saclay reserves the right to refuse or cancel the scholarship awarded if the information provided by the candidate proves to be false.


 


 Contact international-master-scholarship.idex@universite-paris-saclay.fr

















Newsletter


Get the latest news delivered each month to your inbox.
            


Register


























3 rue Joliot Curie
Bâtiment Breguet
91190 Gif-sur-Yvette


              Campus map
            








            Legal notice & credits
          



            Contact us
          






      Plan du site
    



          Legal notice & credits
        



          Contact us
        








Université Paris-Saclay is a member of the LERU, CESAER and EUA networks



          Tous droits réservés Université Paris-Saclay
          Accessibilité : partiellement conforme
        




Facebook





LinkedIn





Youtube





Twitter





Instagram














