



















Orange Knowledge Programme | Study in Holland






      Skip to main content
    










Go to the homepage


Study in Holland


Your official starting point to studying in Holland





Search



Remove search





Search







Search







  Show all results

      



No content has been found with the given search term.




          Searching for results...
        








Menu




 


          Home
        


 


          Why Holland?
        


 


          Dutch education
        


 


          Finances
        


 


          Plan your stay
        


 


          Life in Holland
        


 


          After your studies
        


 


          Student stories
        












 


          Home
        


 


          Why Holland?
        


 


          Dutch education
        


 


          Finances
        


 


          Plan your stay
        


 


          Life in Holland
        


 


          After your studies
        


 


          Student stories
        










Home
Finances
Orange Knowledge Programme















Orange Knowledge Programme

The Orange Knowledge Programme aims to contribute to a society's sustainable and inclusive development. Its scholarships are open to mid-career professionals in specific countries.










          What's on this page?
        



        About this scholarship
      



        How to apply
      



        Selection procedure
      



        Events
      


















Please note that the country list has changed. Check the new list of countries below under 'How to apply'.






About this scholarship





Available courses
Scholarships are available for a selection of:

short courses (duration 2 weeks to 12 months);
master's programmes (duration 12 to 24 months).

All courses that are eligible for an Orange Knowledge Programme scholarship are listed in our database of study programmes. Please find a study, using the filter 'OKP qualified - Yes'.
Funding and management
This 5-year programme is initiated and funded by the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs and managed by Nuffic.






How to apply





Who can apply
The Orange Knowledge Programme individual scholarships are open to mid-career professionals, who are nationals of - and living and working in - the following countries:
Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Colombia, Congo (DRC), Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon, Liberia, Mali, Mozambique, Myanmar, Niger, Nigeria, Palestinian Territories, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, South Sudan, Sudan, Suriname, Tanzania, Tunisia, Uganda, Vietnam, Yemen and Zambia.
How to apply
You cannot apply online on this website. You need to first select a course and then contact the education institution of your course and ask how to apply for the scholarship.
You can find a list of courses and institutions that are linked to the Orange Knowledge Programme in our database of study programmes using the filter 'OKP qualified - Yes'. You can also find contact details of the institutions there.
Application criteria
You cannot apply with us. You need to contact your Dutch education institution. Each institution may have different specific criteria.
For more information on the general eligibility criteria please read: 
OKP information for applicants (168.77 kB)
Please note that there are focus areas for each country. Only applications that fall within the focus area of your country of employment are eligible.
Country focus document Orange Knowledge Programme
Please check the obligations and conditions before you apply:
Obligations for scholarship holders Orange Knowledge Programme
Please check whether your local government requires a government statement:
Government statement requirements Orange Knowledge Programme (109.72 kB)
Deadlines
At this moment you cannot apply. We expect an application round for Short Course scholarships to open between September and October 2021. We will share the application dates on this page as soon as the application round is officially announced in the Government Gazette.
Please note that this application round will only be for Short Courses starting on or after 21 February 2022 and ending before 31 August 2022. 






Selection procedure





The procedure is as follows:

Candidates register with their Dutch education institution
Dutch institution nominates candidates and submits grant application
Embassies check eligibility and assess applications
Selection results published
Grants awarded

The Dutch institution can give you more information on the various steps involved in the application and selection procedures, as well as the eligibility criteria. You can find contact information for the Dutch institutions in our database of study programmes.






Events





Do you want to study in the Netherlands? Join one of our online Study in Holland fairs free of charge. For more information and registration, please visit our events page.

















About us


About Study in Holland




Contact


Contact details


Support in your home country


NL alumni


Events


Complaints and objections




Footer


Copyright


Disclaimer


Cookie statement


Privacy Policy


Accessibility




Social links






Facebook







Twitter







Instagram







Youtube


















