


Unibo Action 1&2: study grants and tuition fee waivers for international students - A.Y. 2021/22 — University of Bologna




go to page content
go to navigation menu






        Search
      


        Search
      






Vai




Close




Directories
        

Directories
          







People

Structures



Vai




Close





           Online services
        


           Online services
        


Students

AlmaEnglish
AlmaEsami
AlmaRM
Certificates
Document and library services
Esami online - EOL
Internships
Job vacancy noticeboard
Moocs-Unibook
Presente
Studenti Online
Study plans
Teaching Staff-Student Distribution lists
Tesi online
UniboStore 
Virtuale



Staff

AlmaEsami
AlmaRegistri
AlmaRM
Cedolini web
Concilium
Document and library services
Esami online - EOL
Incarichi extraistituzionali
Internships
IRIS - Institutional research archive
NormAteneo
OrganiWeb
Personal Website
Platform for printed materials
Presente
Presenze web
Teaching Staff-Student Distribution lists
Tesi online
Titulus
UniboImmagine 
U-Web Reporting - Projects Accounting Reporting
Virtuale
See all


Close





        University Intranet
      



My e-mail

My e-mail



My e-mail for students


My e-mail for staff


Close




My portal


 












it


en





        Menu
        




Home


University
Open submenu


Who we are


Organisation


Campuses and Structures


Support the Alma Mater


Competitions and selections


Contracting and sales


Quality Assurance




Teaching
Open submenu


Enrolling, studying, graduating


Degree Programmes


Course unit catalogue


Professional Master’s programmes


PhD programmes


Specialisation Schools


Post-graduate vocational training programmes


Summer and winter schools


International Education Projects


Teacher training


Innovation in teaching and learning




Research
Open submenu


International networks and associations 


Competences, projects, initiatives


Open Science


PhD programmes


Business and Research


Research at Unibo


Research facilities




University and society
Open submenu


Culture and events


University and business


Sustainability


Development cooperation


Museums and libraries


Healthcare services


Continuing education




International
Open submenu


Agreements and networks


European Projects of Education and Training


International course catalogue


Incoming exchange students


Studying abroad


Internship abroad


International staff, professors and researchers




Services and opportunities
Open submenu


Study grants and subsidies


Libraries, digital resources and study rooms


Guidance and tutoring 


Internships


Job Placement


Entrepreneurship


Sport, culture and university life


Health and Assistance


Certificates and requests for duplicates





             Information for
            Open submenu



Prospective students


Current students


Exchange students


Graduates


Businesses


Incoming Staff













You are here:

Home

            >
            
        

Services and opportunities

                >
                
            

Study grants and subsidies

                >
                
            

Exemptions and incentives

                >
                
            

Unibo Actions 1&2: study grants and tuition fee waivers for international...






Share









Facebook





Twitter





Linkedin





Send to friend













Study grants and subsidies


Libraries, digital resources and study rooms


Guidance and tutoring 


Internships


Job Placement


Entrepreneurship


Sport, culture and university life


Health and Assistance


Certificates and requests for duplicates






















Unibo Action 1&2: study grants and tuition fee waivers for international students - A.Y. 2021/22






The University of Bologna offers to deserving international students who wish to register for First Cycle, Second Cycle or Single Cycle Degree Programmes at the University of Bologna for A.Y. 2021/22:

study grants of €11,000 gross (Unibo Action 2);
tuition fee waivers (Unibo Action 1).

The study grants and the tuition fee waivers are assigned on the basis of SAT and GRE, and some TOLC tests, for one academic year.
Requirements
You can apply for Unibo Action 1&2 if:

you are in possession of (or about to obtain) a valid qualification for access to your chosen degree programme, issued by an Institution outside of the Italian education system. Students holding a diploma issued by an Italian school established outside Italy can apply as well.
You will take one of the following tests by the application deadline: - if you are interested in registering in a First or Single Cycle Degree Programme, the SAT and/or TOLC test - if you are interested in registering in a Second Cycle Degree Programme, the GRE test.
You are less than 30 years old upon the deadline of the call for application.

The SAT, GRE and TOLC are aptitude and skills assessment tests which can be taken in authorised centres in several countries around the world and online (if this modality is offered by the managing institutions).You must register for the tests on the websites of managing institutions.
SAT And GRE tests are in English. TOLC test is available in English and Italian language.
You can find more information in the call for applications.
Timing and methods
Call for applications Unibo Actions 1&2 - SAT (for students who are interested in registering in a First or Single Cycle Degree Programme)

Publication of the call for applications: 28 January 2021 at 12.00 CET
Applications deadline: 30 April 2021 at 12.00 CET
Publication of results: May 2021

Call for applications Unibo Actions 1&2 - TOLC (for students who are interested in registering in a First or Single Cycle Degree Programme)

Publication of the call for applications: 25 February 2021 at 12:00 CET
Applications deadline: 31 May 2021 at 12:00 CET
Publication of results: June 2021

Call for applications Unibo Actions 1&2 - GRE (for students who are interested in registering in a Second Cycle Degree Programme)

Publication of the call for applications: 28 January 2021 at 12.00 CET
Applications deadline: 31 March 2021 at 12.00 CET
Publication of results: April 2021

The application must be submitted exclusively through Studenti Online.
Important: you must take the SAT, GRE or TOLC test by the application deadline. The only upcoming date to take the SAT outside the U.S.A. is 13 March 2021, with registration deadline on 12 February 2021. 
Remember to send your scores to the University of Bologna selecting the codes 6993 for the SAT test and 7850 for the GRE test. Send them in due time to meet the deadlines set in the call for application for receiving the scores.
According to the order of the ranking, winners will be assigned Unibo Action 2 study grants until all the grants are used up. Next, winners in the subsequent positions will be assigned Unibo Action 1 tuition fee waivers, until the entire budget is used up. It is not possible to receive both benefits.   
Renewal of Unibo Action 2 study grants and Unibo Action 1 waivers awarded in A.Y. 2020/21
The University of Bologna offers Unibo Action 2 study grants and Unibo Action 1 waivers for A.Y. 2021/22, reserved for students who were awarded the same benefits for A.Y. 2020/21. 
In order to obtain the renewal you must apply by the deadlines set in the call for applications, be in possession of the requirements set in the call for applications and be placed among the winners in the ranking list. Renewals are not awarded automatically.
Find out more






Find out more


International students: how to prepare for enrolment

Published


Study grants and exemptions for international students

Published




See also


International programmes delivered in English and Erasmus Mundus programmes EM (now EMJMD)

Published


Prospective students

Published


Why the University of Bologna?

Published


Enrolling in a First Cycle or Single Cycle Degree Programme - Foreign qualification

Published


Enrolling in a Second Cycle Degree Programme - Foreign qualification

Published







Contacts


DIRI - Area Relazioni Internazionali - International Desk


                
                    Via Filippo Re 4 - 40126 Bologna (Italy)
                
                 
                
            

internationaldesk@unibo.it


Tel:

                        
                            +39 051 2082550
                            


Notices
Telephone Desk: Monday 10:00-12:00 and Thursday 14:30-16:00Virtual Desk (https://unibo.zoom.us/j/94969982415#success): Wednesday and Friday 10:00-12:00























Follow Unibo on:




Follow Unibo on Facebook





Follow Unibo on YouTube





Follow Unibo on Instagram





Follow Unibo on Twitter





Follow Unibo on Linkedin




Segui Unibo su Spreaker





More social networks





App:



myUniBo




myAlmaOrienta




myJobPlacement




App AMA Community Unibo










Give now

Alma orienta

Job placement
Alumni


Contacts
Certified e-mail - PEC
Public Relations Office (URP)
Press office
Students with disabilities or SLD
Magna Charta Observatory
Administrative divisions
Strategic plan
University budgets
UniboStore
Wi-Fi
About the website and accessibility information
Transparent administration
Calls and competitions
Privacy policy e legal notes
Open Data
List of thematic websites
Appeals lodged



Portale unibo
        ©Copyright 2021 - ALMA MATER STUDIORUM - Università di Bologna - Via Zamboni, 33 - 40126 Bologna - Partita IVA: 01131710376





