Pr

EXCELLENCE FELLOWSHIP
GUIDELINES

MASTER Students

 

Aerial view EPFL Campus
(Copyright: EPFL - Alain Herzog)

SAE —- July 2019 Page 1|8
TABLE OF CONTENT

1.
2.

2.1.
2.2.
2.3.
2.4.
2.5.

3.

3.1.

4.

4.1.
4.2.
4.3.
4.4.
4.5.
4.6.

5.

5.1.
Diz:
9.9.
5.4.
mo
5.6.

6.

6.1.
6.2.
6.3.
6.4.

7.

FELLOWSHIP DESCRIPTION AND PURPOGE..................csssscscceccescescccccsscecceccescccccsccecsescesscesesscesees

APPLICATION & SELECTION. .............csssccescccssccescccesccssscescccscscesccscscececosssssscesscessccessccecccesscussconss

Eligibility

Fellowship amount and Dene fits .............cccccceccccccceseeceeeeeeeeeeceeeeaeeceeeseeeeeeeseaeeeeeeseeeeeeeessaeeeeessaaeeees

How toa

Dply............

Selected candidates & reserve CANCIAALES ........... ccc ceeccccceceeeeeeeeeaaeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeseseeeeeeesaeeeeeeeeas
Rejected fellowship Applications ............cccccccccccccsssseceeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeessseeeesseaeeeeeesaaeeeeeessaeeeeessaaeeeees

PAYMENT SCHEDULE & RENEWAL sssscssscsnnsensasnnn cnn aennn cana asnanaa sa 00nensa wn conan sa nn conen sa 50 conenen en senensnen ine

Renewal

Deferment of fellowship

Other scholarships/fellowships or position as research SChOIAr ..............ccccceeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeas

Employment

Internship (in SwitZerland Or ADrOAC) ..............ccccccceseeeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeseeeeeeeeesaaeaeeeeeseeeeeeeaesseeeeeeesesaaaaeees
Master’s Thesis (in SwitZerland Or ADrOA)...............ccccccceeceneeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeaeaeseeeeeeesesaaaeeeeeesees

Inability to study

Employment
HOUSING .........00220eee
French course
Insurance

UPON ARRIVAL IN LAUSANWINE.............cccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccecccceccececccccccccccceccccecccceccccecees
Welcome event

Residence permit & reSid@nCe tax.........ccccccccccccccsseeceeeeeseeceeeeeeeeceeeeseeseeeeesaeeeeeeesaaeeeeeessaeeeeessaaeeeees

Bank account

TAXAtiON ........ccccccececcceccecccececccecececuceuacuuaeaeaeneneneneuecscatecauauacauaeauauneaenenenensuenstseataraeaeateuauaeaeataeneneneneners

CONTACTS

Dace 2 8
Pa 5 & |
1. FELLOWSHIP DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE

EPFL offers a limited number of fellowships at master’s level to students with outstanding academic
records. Anyone applying to an EPFL master’s program is eligible. The selection of candidates and the
granting of the fellowships is done based on the evaluation of the academic records of the candidates. The
fellowship committee, comprising members of the EPFL sections, a representative of the Vice-Presidency
for Education and representatives from other school services, selects the candidates. The selection
process is very competitive, only about 3% of the master students receive such financial support.

Some fellowships are funded by EPFL directly while others are funded through partnerships with
foundations or private companies.

These guidelines aim at providing all necessary details for EPFL excellence fellowship holders to prepare
for their master’s and to meet performance expectations.

The Student Affairs (SAE), located in the BP building, manages the fellowships. For any queries or
clarification, please contact e-fellowship@epfl.ch.

2. APPLICATION & SELECTION

2.1. Eligibility

Anyone applying to an EPFL master’s program is eligible. EPFL grants a limited number of fellowships to
the most deserving candidates based solely on their academic records.

Cumulating this fellowship with other substantial scholarships is not possible. Candidates are required to
declare all the scholarships they receive during their master’s (see section 4.2).

If the master at EPFL is a second master’s degree, candidates are not eligible for an excellence fellowship.

2.2. Fellowship amount and benefits

. 4. INTERNAL applications
EXTERNAL applications (after EPFL bachelor’s degree)

> CHF 8000 per semester (CHF 327000 for a

> CHF 5’000 per year (CHF 10’000 for a

2-year degree - 120 credits / CHF 24’000 for
master)

a 1.5-year degree - 90 credits)

> Reservation of an accommodation (student
room in a student residence)

> A certificate of excellence for the results
achieved during bachelor studies

 

Fellowship holders will be responsible to cover all expenses on their own (i.e. accommodation, tuition fees,
etc.).

The fellowship will be paid for no more than 4 semesters even in case the student decides to take a minor
or for any other reason that might extend the duration of his/her studies and provided that he/she is still
registered.

SAE - July 2019 Page 3|8
2.3. How to apply

EXTERNAL applications INTERNAL applications
(after EPFL bachelor’s degree)

Sections might contact students to ask if they
want to submit an application for an excellence
fellowship.

Students can also submit an application to their

Candidates should apply via the same online form | Section by April 30.

than their application to a master’s program by The application should contain:

April 15 or December 15. a CV

Please note that it is necessary to tick a box a motivation letter
indicating that the candidates profile should also a transcript of all grades earned at EPFL
be considered for an excellence fellowship. a recommendation letter from the

sections’ director
There is no other way to apply for an ! !

excellence fellowship. Students who are planning to switch to another
section/program need a recommendation letter
from the director of the section they came from
and must also contact the deputy of their future
section to introduce themselves. The deputy of
their future section will then submit the
application to the excellence fellowships
committee.

 

2.4. Selected candidates & reserve candidates

A first screening is done by the sections. Then, the excellence fellowships committee meets and awards
the fellowships.

Selected candidates are notified in written and will be given a deadline (2-4 weeks) to confirm coming to
EPFL for their master’s.

In case of withdrawal or failure to reply, the fellowship is offered to the next candidate on the waiting list
(reserve candidate) who then has a new deadline (1-2 weeks) to confirm his/her enrolment.

. 4. INTERNAL applications
PATERNAL applications (after EPFL bachelor’s degree)

Candidates receive an answer about their application at:

> the beginning of April (December deadline)
> the end of June (April deadline)

> the end of June

 

In order to receive the fellowship, students must confirm their intention of coming to EPFL for a master’s
degree within the requested deadline by using the link provided in the email «Your application for a
master’s program at EPFL» sent by the Registrar’s Office.

A confirmation and a certificate will be sent and will allow all fellowship holders to start handling the
administrative formalities.

CAE lu | \ 7010 Doaogea 4
IAC : Ju Y Z£2U1 9 rdf e
{2 |
2.5. Rejected fellowship applications

Unsuccessful fellowship applicants cannot appeal against the decision of the committee, nor will the
committee review refused applications. Students who received an e-mail stating they were not awarded a
fellowship are not on the waiting list.

Students can re-apply for an excellence fellowship the following year if they decide to postpone their
master’s for a year. The procedure will be the same as for students applying for that year.

3. Payment schedule & Renewal

Payment of the fellowship will take place at the beginning of each semester as following:

EXTERNAL INTERNAL
applications applications
CHF 81000 (18 Oct.)
Year 1 CHF 5’000 (15 Sept.)
CHF 81000 (16 Feb)
CHF 81000 (15 Sept)
Year 2 CHF 5’000 (15 Sept.)

(if renewal) Semester 2 | CHF 8’000 (15 Feb.)

   
       

    

* As it might take some time to process the first payment, fellowship holders should take cash money with
them to cover all expenses for a month (approx. CHF 2’000) (see section 5.2.).

Fellowships are paid on a Swiss bank or postal account. Fellowship holders should open their own Swiss
bank or postal account upon arrival in Switzerland. EPFL never pays a fellowship in cash, nor on a foreign
bank account (see section 6.3.).

3.1. Renewal

The renewal and payment of the fellowship for a second year of studies is conditional upon excellent
academic performance at EPFL.

At the end of the first year, fellowships are renewed (for 1 or 2 semesters depending on the number of
credits of the MA) provided that fellowship holders:

> Have reached the average of 5.3 (6 = max / 4 = pass) at the end of their first MA year. The average
is weighted with the ECTS credits of each course. All numerical grades from all chosen courses and
exams during the first MA year, count for the average.

> Have earned at least 50 credits after the first year. Credits for language courses do not count, neither
do the credits for the industrial internship completed over the summer break.

There will be no exceptions for students who have not reached their average or number of credits.

If the fellowship is not renewed, students will not have to reimburse the amount received during their first
year.

= July 2019 Page 5|8
4. RULES

4.1. Deferment of fellowship

No deferment is possible. Fellowship holders who decide to defer their admission at EPFL, lose their
excellence fellowship and can apply for this fellowship scheme the following year if they decide to postpone
their master’s for a year. The procedure will be the same as for all students applying for that year.

4.2. Other scholarships/fellowships or position as research scholar

On a general basis, excellence fellowship holders cannot hold two scholarships/fellowships at once. Other
scholarship/fellowship or any scholarship or funding program financed by EPFL (ex. Research scholar) are
not compatible with the EPFL excellence fellowships.

Exceptions to this rule:

> Internal students (who have completed their bachelor studies at EPFL) regardless of the second
scholarship/fellowship amount and source

> External students (students who come to EPFL only for their master) can accept other funding if the
amount of the scholarship/fellowship does not surpass half of the amount of the EPFL excellence
fellowship per semester.

4.3. Employment

Students are allowed to work in Switzerland (see section 5.3.). Fellowships will not be reduced or stopped.

4.4. Internship (in Switzerland or abroad)

> Internship included in a study program: the payment of the Excellence fellowship will be maintained.

> Internship not included in a study program: the payment of the Excellence fellowship will be
suspended and resumed upon return, if the requirements for renewal are met.

4.5. Master’s Thesis (in Switzerland or abroad)

The payment of the excellence fellowship will be maintained.

4.6. Inability to study

In case of (un)expected event, students are excepted to inform the Excellence fellowship administration

e-fellowship@epfl.ch and the Student services desk student.services@epfl.ch immediately:

> Sickness and pregnancy: if the excellence fellowship holder cannot continue to study and pass
examinations, the excellence fellowship will be suspended.

> Army and civil service: this section concerns Swiss citizens who have an obligation to serve. In this
case, the excellence fellowship will be suspended for the duration of the stay at the army. It will resume
once the student is back at EPFL if the requirements for renewal are met.

> Personal motive: fellowship payment will be suspended for students who leave for a personal motive.
Fellowship payment will be resumed upon return if the requirements for renewal are met.

= July 2019 Page 6|8
5S. PREPARING FOR ARRIVAL IN _LAUSANNE

To organise students’ arrival at EPFL as best as possible, an interactive checklist with information about
every step to be taken, from insurances to course registration is available. To activate this list please refer
to the e-mail you received upon your matriculation.

5.1. Visa procedure

Fellowships holders who need a visa for Switzerland, should be aware that the visa application must be
submitted at least 3 months before the beginning of the academic year.

More information on the page about visas.

5.2. Budget

The cost of living is high in Switzerland. Students spend around CHF 2’000 a month.

A budget model has been established with examples of typical costs and charges for students in
Switzerland.

5.3. Employment

The employment law authorizes EU students to work:

> up to 15 hours per week during the semester
> full time during the semester break

EU nationals can ask for a work permit as soon as they arrive. Non-EU citizens are allowed to work only
6 months after their arrival.

Please note that it is difficult to work whilst studying, as a students’ typical weekly schedule may include
up to:

> 32 hours of lectures, assignments and practical exercises

> 15-20 hours of preparation for courses (not including exam preparation)

More information on go.epfl.ch/working.

5.4. Housing

The housing situation in Lausanne is tight with a low vacancy rate. Luckily, fellowship holders are given
priority access to student housing. EPFL housing information will contact the fellowship holders soon after
the fellowship is confirmed.

Please keep in mind that every tenant will have to pay an upfront deposit for a room prior to arrival, ranging
from 1 to 3 months of rent. Provide budget for the first monthly rent as it has to be paid upfront too.

5.5. French course

Learning French is strongly recommended, as it will make life in Lausanne easier.

EPFL offers a free of charge intensive French course for foreign students. This course generally starts at
the end of August and lasts about three weeks.

Registration starts at the beginning of June. Useful information and the registration form can be found on
the Centre des langues page. Students should make sure that their visa is already valid when the course
begins (page about visas).

5.6. Insurance

Any person staying in Switzerland is legally obliged to get a healthcare insurance and an accident
insurance scheme.

SAE - July 2019 Page 7|8
Fellowship holders who need advice can contact the Agepoly (General Association of EPFL students) or
visit the web page about insurances.

6. UPON ARRIVAL INLAUSANNE

6.71. Welcome event

All excellence fellowship holders will be invited to a welcome session. This event takes place at the
beginning of the academic year and allows students to ask more specific questions about the fellowship
and to get to know other fellowship holders.

6.2. Residence permit & residence tax

Fellowship holders must register within 14 days after arrival at the local Resident's registration office
(Contréle des habitants), which will issue a temporary residence document. This document is required for
administrative purposes during the stay in Switzerland (i.e. bank account, phone contract, insurances,
subscriptions, etc.).

Please note that excellence fellowship holders can ask for a residence tax exemption.

More information on residence permit page.

6.3. Bank account

Fellowships are paid on a Swiss bank or postal account. Therefore, fellowship holders should open their
own Swiss bank or postal account upon arrival in Switzerland. EPFL never pays a fellowship in cash, nor
on a foreign bank account.

6.4. Taxation

Fellowships should be tax-free. This may however vary from canton to canton. For more information,
please submit all tax queries concerning your fellowship to the competent offices in Switzerland or abroad.

7. CONTACTS

e General and academic queries: Student services desk student.services@epfl.ch

e Queries about the number and type of courses to choose (course content, approval of a specific study
plan variation etc.): program deputies or program secretaries

e In case of inability to study (see section 4.6.): excellence fellowship administration

e-fellowship@epfl.ch and student.services@epfl.ch
e For general questions about the excellence fellowships program: e-fellowship@epfl.ch

Version: 20.08.2019

SAE - July 2019 Page 8|8
