 

Ministry of Foreign Affairs
and International Cooperation

GRANTS FOR FOREIGN AND ITALIAN CITIZENS LIVING ABROAD AWARDED BY THE ITALIAN
GOVERNMENT.
CALL FOR APPLICATIONS FOR THE ACADEMIC YEAR 2021-2022.

DEADLINE JULY 13", 2021

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation (MAECI) offers grants in favor of
foreign citizens in Italy* and Italian citizens living abroad (IRE)** for the academic year 2021-2022
in order to foster international cooperation in cultural, scientific and technological fields, to
promote Italian language and culture and to support Italy’s economic system in the world (according
to Law 288/55 and its subsequent changes and additions).

Grants are offered to complete study courses and research/training programs in public or legally
recognized Italian educational institution.

Scholarships are available to attend academic courses on the Italian territory only.

The list of eligible foreign countries can be found on the website “Study in _ Italy”:
https://studyinitaly.esteri.it/en/call-for-procedure.

Art. 1
GRANTS OPPORTUNITIES

1.1 Master’s Degree (Laurea Magistrale 2° ciclo)

Grants for Master’s Degree courses are awarded for a period of study of 6 (six) or 9 (nine) months.
Admission to the first year of a Master’s Degree course in Italy requires the completion of a
Bachelor’s degree in the applicants’ country of origin; admission to the second year is granted to
applicants who have given exams for a minimum of 15 university credits (CFU).

1.2 Courses of Higher Education in Arts, Music and Dance (AFAM)

Grants for Courses of Higher Education in Arts, Music and Dance (AFAM) are awarded for a period
of study of 6 (six) or 9 (nine) months.

To be admitted to an Italian AFAM Institute, applicants need to meet the entry requirements and
academic qualifications established by the relevant University/Institute.
1.3 PhD program

Grants for a PhD program are awarded for a period of study of 6 (six) or 9 (nine) months.

To be admitted to a PhD in Italy, applicants need to meet the entry requirements and academic
qualifications established by the University; they are also required to provide an acceptance letter
from the relevant Italian University.

1.4 Research under academic supervision (Progetti in co-tutela)

Grants for a research under academic supervision are awarded for a period of study of 6 (six) or 9
(nine) months.

This type of grants can be awarded to research projects carried out at the Italian Research
Institutions (i.e Italian Research Council - CNR, Italian National Institute of Health — ISS, Italian
National Institute for Nuclear Physics — INFN, Italian National Institute for Astrophysics — INAF, The
Italian Institute for Environmental Protection and Research —ISPRA, and others) under the academic
supervision of public Universities or Museums and Archives.

Applicants must submit a research project and the letter of admission from the host
University/Institute; they are also required to provide the name and contacts (e-mail address) of
their supervisors.

Nota bene: Admission to some Master’s Degree courses or AFAM Institutes requires an admission
test. Please refer to the relevant University/AFAM Institute to check whether an admission test is
required.

1.5 Italian culture and language courses

Grants for Italian culture and language courses are awarded exclusively for a period of 3 (three)
months to students currently attending an Italian course at a University or at an Italian Cultural
Institute.

Applicants must provide a certificate of their proficiency in Italian language. The minimum level
required is A2 within the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR):
https://europa.eu/europass/en/common-european-framework-reference

Art. 2
ELIGIBILITY

Applicants who will meet the following requirements by the deadline of this call (JULY 13" 2021,
2 p.m. C.E.T.) may apply for a grant.

2.1 Academic qualifications

Applications must only be submitted by foreign students not residing in Italy* and by Italian citizens
living abroad (IRE)** holding an appropriate academic qualification required to enroll to the Italian
University/Institute (more information on:  https://studyinitaly.esteri.it/en/Recognition-of
qualification).
2.2 Age requirements

Applicants for Master’s Degree/Higher Education in Arts, Music, and Dance (AFAM) Programmes/
Italian Language and Culture Courses should not be over 28 years old by the deadline of this call
(July 13", 2021), with the sole exception of renewals.

Applicants for PhD Programmes should not be over 30 years old by the deadline of this call (July
13* 2021), with the sole exception of renewals.

Applicants for Research Projects under academic supervision should not be over 40 years old by
the deadline of this call (July 13", 2021).

2.3 Language proficiency

2.3.1 Italian-taught courses

In order to enroll in an Italian-taught course, applicants must provide a certificate of their proficiency
in Italian language. The minimum level required is B2 within the Common European Framework
of Reference for Languages (CEFR).

Candidates who were enrolled in an Italian-taught course at the University may submit a language
certification issued by a language teacher of the University department.

2.3.2 English-taught courses

In order to enroll in an English-taught course, applicants must provide a language certificate of their
proficiency in English Language. The minimum level required is B2 within the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR).

A self-certification may be accepted for candidates from countries where English is an official
language and who are applying for courses held entirely in English.
Proof of proficiency in Italian is not required for courses entirely taught in English.

2.3.3 Italian culture and language courses

For Italian culture and language courses, applicants must provide a certificate of their proficiency in
Italian language. The minimum level required is A2 within the Common European Framework of
Reference for Languages (CEFR).

Candidates who were enrolled in Italian course at the University may submit a language certification
issued by a language teacher of the University department.

Art. 3
RENEWALS

Applicants who have received a MAECI grant in the Academic Year 2020-2021 may apply through
ordinary procedures to continue or complete a multi-year degree course. Renewals are granted only
to applicants who prove satisfactory academic progress (15 university credits minimum). For Phd
Programs it will be necessary to present a positive evaluation letter from the tutor.

In order to receive the grant, enrollment to the Academic Year 2021-2022 is mandatory.
Art. 4
FUNDING PERIOD

Grants are awarded for a period of study starting from January 1°, 2022. For renewals, the grant
period will start from November 1°, 2021. In any case, the scholarships must end by October 31°
2022.

Art. 5
INELIGIBILITY

Italian Public Administration employees and their first-degree descendants can not apply for grants.

Grants cannot be awarded to attend Bachelor’s Degree courses (first cycle), Single Cycle Degree
Programs or a First-level/Second-level master.

Besides, grants cannot be awarded to attend courses in foreign Institutions based in Italy or abroad,
nor in private Institutes, Research Centres or Labs not recognised by the Italian Ministry of the
University, and Research (MUR).

A Grant cannot be awarded to candidates that are being enrolled beyond the statutary duration of
their studies (it: “fuori corso”).

Applications that do not meet the eligibility criteria will not be considered.

Art. 6
GRANTS IN MEMORY
OF THE AMBASSADOR LUCA ATTANASIO

In memory of Ambassador Attanasio and the members of his party (Vittorio lacovacci and Mustapha
Milambo), it has been provided a reserve of 3 scholarships for candidates coming from Morocco,
Niger and the Democratic Republic of Congo, who aim to start or pursue their course of studies in
the fields of international relationships, cooperation for development, international humanitarian
law and human rights, with a preference for Master’s Degrees classified LM-38 (Modern Languages
for communication and cooperation), LM-52 (International relationships), LM-62 (Political Sciences),
LM-81 (Cooperation for development Sciences) LM-87 (Social services and social policies).

Art. 7
SUBMISSION OF APPLICATIONS

Applicants must complete and submit the online application form available upon registration at
the following link:

httos://studyinitaly.esteri.it
We recommend to register through a frequently used email address, as further communications will
be sent to the chosen email address.

Applications must be submitted by 2 pm C.E.T. July 13", 2021.

Applications submitted after the deadline will be rejected.

Art. 8
SELECTION AND AWARDING OF GRANTS

8.1 Selection

Applications will be evaluated by a Committee set up by the Italian Diplomatic Mission accredited
in the applicant’s country of origin.

8.2 Awarding

Grants will be awarded on the basis of a comparative assessment of applications according to the
entry requirements and other criteria of merit related to applicant’s cv.

8.3 Ranking

The relevant Diplomatic Mission will publish on its website the list of grantees and of the reserve
candidates.

Art. 9
TUITION FEES

Grantees may be exempted from the payment of enrollment and tuition fees depending on the
policy of each University. Regional Fees are due anyway.

The exemption is not applied for Italian culture and language courses, for which the payment of
registration fees is required.

Art. 10
HEALTH AND MEDICAL INSURANCE

Grantees will be covered by a health and medical/accident insurance contracted by MAECI for the
entire duration of the grant.

IIInesses depending on pre-existing physical or pathological conditions and dental care are excluded
from the insurance coverage.

Grantees coming for EU countries are advised to get the European Health Insurance Card (EHIC).
Art. 11
TERMS OF GRANT

Grantees will receive a 900 Euros monthly allowance on a quarterly basis, which will be paid on an
Italian bank account opened in their name.

The first installment of the grant can be received only after the completion of enrollment in the
University/Institute and the submission of all the documents requested according to the necessary
administrative procedures.

The MAECI will begin the disbursment procedures at the end of each quarter. Individual payments
will therefore commence after that period.

The last installment of the grant will be paid only upon verification of satisfactory academic progress.

Art. 12
INCOMPATIBILITY

The grant is incompatible with any other grant offered by the Italian Government or any other Italian
public institution, including the scholarships provided by educational regional authorities and
agencies.

The Grant is compatible with other European programs, such as Erasmus and Erasmus+, and other
scholarships offered by international institutions, but it will not be paid for the periods of study
outside Italy.

NOTES

* Indian citizens should also register their application on the website of the Ministry of Human
Resource Development (http://proposal.sakshat.ac.in/scholarship/)

** IRE grants are offered for the following countries: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ethiopia,
Lebanon, Peru, South Africa, Uruguay, and Venezuela.
