UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI DI TORINO

13 SCHOLARSHIPS RESERVED TO

INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
CALL FOR ENROLLING IN MASTER’S DEGREE
APPLICATION PROGRAMMES A.Y. 2021-2022

Deadline for application: WEDNESDAY 2021 April 28% —
at 11 a.m. Italian time (GMT +1)

ART. 1 — Aim of the call

Art. 1.1 - Subject, amount and duration

The University of Turin funds 13 two-year scholarships in order to support deserving students.
Scholarships are awarded to international students enrolling for a.y. 2021-2022 in the first year of a
postgraduate degree program offered by the University of Turin.

To be considered an international student eligible to apply for this call, you must:
e holda valid qualification providing access to a postgraduate degree program obtained outside the
Italian education system;
@ NOT have Italian citizenship;
e NOT reside in Italy.

Scholarship value: gross amount of 9,000 euros per year, including costs borne by the beneficiary.

Art. 1.2 — Assignment of the scholarships
The 13 two-year scholarships will be assigned according to the following categories:
a. 3 scholarships reserved for international students with Japanese citizenship
b. 4 scholarships reserved for international students from the following countries: Algeria, Cameroon,
Gabon, Madagascar, Mali, Morocco, Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Senegal, Tunisia, Union of the
Comoros
c. 2scholarships reserved for international students with Mexican citizenship
d. 4 scholarships reserved for international students with any other citizenship different from those
listed above.
In the event that scholarships listed in sections a, b, c are not awarded, they will be assigned in addition to
those reserved for international students mentioned in section d.

Art. 1.3 — Possible additional scholarships

In the event of more funds available, the number of scholarships may increase proportionally to the budget.
In that case, the allocation of the additional scholarships will be evenly distributed among the categories
specified in the art. 1.2, according to the following order of priority: a, b, c, d.

Direzione Attivita Istituzionali, Programmazione, Qualita e Valutazione
Sezione Mobilita e Didattica internazionale; Tel. +39 011 6704452 ; E-mail internationalstudents@unito. it
Page 1 of 12
UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI DI TORINO

ART. 2 — Incompatibility

Such scholarships cannot be cumulated with study grants issued under international programmes (e.g.
Erasmus Mundus Joint Master Degree of the Erasmus Plus programme), study grants issued by the Italian
Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Ministry (MAECI) and study grants issued by EDISU
Piemonte, Regional Agency for the Right to Education of Piedmont.

ART. 3 - Admission requirements
To submit your application, under penalty of exclusion from the selection, you need to meet the
following requirements:

- Holding a qualification obtained in an institution outside the Italian system, valid to access the
chosen Postgraduate Degree program, or obtaining it within the deadline established in this call for
application in the University of Turin;

- Meeting the necessary requirements to access the chosen degree program at the time of enrollment
in such degree program (check the admission requirements for the degree program of your interest
on apply.unito it);

- Having sent the application for the degree program(s) of your interest through the
Apply@Unito platform within April 28", 2021;

- Having linguistic proficiency in Italian (for degree programs taught in Italian) or in English (for
degree programs taught in English), equal to at least a B2 level of the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages;

- Not having been previously enrolled in a undergraduate, postgraduate or 5-6 years postgraduate
degree program at the University of Turin;

- Notbeing older than 29 on the deadline date of the call for application; NOT being an Italian citizen
and NOT being resident in Italy.

NOT ELIGIBLE APPLICANTS:

e Students enrolling in any academic year beyond the first

e Students changing from their first program to another within those offered by the University
of Turin

e Students transferring from another university

e Students applying for academic recognition of credits.

PLEASE NOTE: in order to be admitted and enrol in the chosen programme, non-EU students
residing abroad must respect VISA procedures and deadlines concerning the access of foreign
students to Italian university courses set in the Regulations issued by the competent Italian Ministry.

Direzione Attivita Istituzionali, Programmazione, Qualita e Valutazione
Sezione Mobilita e Didattica internazionale; Tel. +39 011 6704452 ; E-mail internationalstudents@unito. it
Page 2 of 12
oo a
anne ge
age

ie et " =

Z Bt h [5

af td FS a

UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI DI TORINO

ART. 4 — Applications

Applications shall be submitted within Wednesday 2021 April 28" (1 pm Italian time), exclusively
through the online procedure. Anyone wishing to submit an application shall:

Sign in to:

apply.unito.it Select the program/s you are
interested in and submit your
application on Apply@Unito

Use the applicant code you received while
registering to Apply@Unito, in order to fill in
the scholarship form, available on ‘Call for
13 two-year scholarships - a.y. 2021-2022 - at
the following link https://en.unito .it/studyingunito/scholarships-international-students

   
   
 
 
 
    

Applications received after the deadline or applications received through other means or incomplete of all
required documents will not be eligible.

Students who did not complete/submit the application form on apply.unito.it cannot apply for the
scholarship.

When submitting the application for this call for application, candidates must provide, under penalty of
inadmissibility:

1) certification of linguistic proficiency equal to at least a B2 level of the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages, as specified below:

Oo IN THE CASE OF APPLICATIONS FOR POSTGRADUATE DEGREE PROGRAMS
TAUGHT IN ENGLISH, it is possible to certify linguistic proficiency in one of the
following ways:

a. Attaching to the application an English language certification included among the
following ones: BEC Vantage, FCE Grade B and C, IELTS 5.5-6.5, TOEFL iBT 87109, Trinity College ISE II;

b. Attaching to the application a declaration issued (in English) by the upper secondary
school and/or by the academic institution confirming that the studies were carried
out entirely in English. In this case, for the purposes of this call for application, the
candidate will be considered "mother tongue".

o IN THE CASE OF APPLICATIONS FOR POSTGRADUATE DEGREE PROGRAMS
TAUGHT IN ITALIAN, it is possible to certify the linguistic proficiency attaching to the
application an Italian language certification equal to at least a B2 level of the Council of
Europe, awarded as follows

a. issued in the framework of the CLIQ (Italian Quality Language Certification)
quality system. This system unites in one association the current certification bodies
(University for Foreigners of Perugia, University for Foreigners of Siena, Rome Tre
University and the Dante Alighieri Society)

Direzione Attivita Istituzionali, Programmazione, Qualita e Valutazione
Sezione Mobilita e Didattica internazionale; Tel. +39 011 6704452 ; E-mail internationalstudents@unito. it
Page 3 of 12
UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI DI TORINO

b. issued by the University for Foreigners "Dante Alighieri" of Reggio Calabria, as
well as in convention with Italian Institutes of Culture abroad or other institutions.

These certifications may be gained in the country of origin, in the approved exam
centres found all over the world.

2) names (minimum 2 - maximum 3) of Professors from the foreign University of origin, who can be
contacted by the University of Turin to request reference letters

3) copy of the foreign academic qualification (e.g. bachelor's degree) and related study plan (transcript
of records)

4) Curriculum Vitae

5) Motivation Letter

Applications received after the deadline will not be considered, nor applications received by other means
(via fax, e-mail, or in paper format) or not complete with all the required documentation.

Finally, it should be noted that students who do not complete the application for the degree program
of interest on https://apply.unito.it/ will not be able to apply for the scholarship in question.

ART. 5 — Awarding criteria and drawing up of ranking list

The applications selection will be based on the assessment of the qualifications and of the interview.

Applications will be evaluated with the allocation of the following points, on a basis of 100:

e additional linguistic certification provided by the candidate during the application process:
maximum 10 points;

e tworeference letters receivedby the Professors ofthe University of origin of the candidate following
an explicit request by the University of Turin: maximum 50 points. In case of receipt of more than
two reference letters, the two letters that allow the attribution of the highest score will be taken into
consideration;

@ motivational interview: maximum 40 points

The qualifications evaluation will have a maximum score of 60/100 and will be based on the following
elements:

- linguistic proficiency of the candidate

- reference letters by Professors of the University of origin of the candidate

The allocation of points for linguistic proficiency will take place only in the case of linguistic certification
proving a level of knowledge of the language above B2 level and will be graded as follows:

- 8 points in case of proficiency equal to Cl level
- 10 points in case of proficiency equal to C2 level or for candidates considered "mother tongue" for
the purposes of this call for application.

Direzione Attivita Istituzionali, Programmazione, Qualita e Valutazione
Sezione Mobilita e Didattica internazionale; Tel. +39 011 6704452 ; E-mail internationalstudents@unito. it
Page 4 of 12
UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI DI TORINO

Only those candidates whose qualifications have been assessed with a score of at least 30/60 will be
admitted to the interview.

In order to pass the interview it is necessary to achievea score of at least 20/40.

At the end of the interviews, four different ranking lists will be drawn up and will take into account the
citizenship of the candidates in accordance with the criteria specified in art. 1 of this call for application.
Candidates will be placed in the ranking list corresponding to their citizensh ip following a descending order
of scores. The awarding of scholarships for each ranking list will take place on the basis of the overall score
(qualifications + interview) obtained by the candidates.

With the same overall score, the scholarship will be awarded to the youngest candidate.

ART. 6 - Publication of ranking lists

The four different ranking lists will be published at the end of June 2021 on the University portal at the
following link: www.unito.it — Internazionalita — Studenti e ospiti internazionali — Borse per student
internazionali.

ART.7 - Acceptance
Each assignee will be notified of the award of the scholarships via e-mail.
In order to accept the scholarship assignees shall:
- Send an e-mail to internationalstudents@unito.it within 10 days from the award of the scholarship.
Failure to comply will result in exclusion from the competition,
- Confirm that they do not fall within any of the conditions of incompatibility laid down in article 2
of this Call.
N.B. The scholarship will be awarded only if the assignee is admitted to the Postgraduate Degree program
and completes the enrollment procedure by 15 November 2021.

ART. 8 - Method of payment of the scholarship and maintenance of requirements
The scholarship will be paid in four instalments (two instalments per year), on the basis of the following
criteria and schedule.

The scholarships will be paid through bank transfer to a bank account or prepaid card with an Italian IBAN
in the name or joint name of the beneficiary student.

Direzione Attivita Istituzionali, Programmazione, Qualita e Valutazione
Sezione Mobilita e Didattica internazionale; Tel. +39 011 6704452 ; E-mail internationalstudents@unito. it
Page 5 of 12
UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI DI TORINO

FIRST YEAR

First instalment

Amount Payment:
5000€ (gross of the December 2021
costs borne by the (only if regularly
assignee) enrolled by

2021 November 15‘)

Requirements:
- admission and enrolment of the student in the
Postgraduate Degree program;
- payment of the Ist instalment of the university
tuition fees;
- delivery of the duly filled in financial contract by
2021 November 25th.

Second instalment
Amount: payment:
4.000 €(grossof July 2022: if the assignee will
the costs borne by | have achieved at least 50% of
the assignee) the credits planned in their
degree program for the academic
year of attendance by 2022 June
30th;
November 2022: if the assignee
will have achieved, by 2022
October 3 1‘tat least 50% of the
credits planned in their degree
| program

 

Requirements:

- regular enrolment in the degree program by paying
the due instalments of the university tuition fees on the
basis of the current Tax and Contribution Regulations;
- achievement of the merit requirements listed in the
above section related to payments.

PLEASE NOTE:

In case of failure in meeting the merit requirements for
the allocation of the second instalment of the first year
by 2022 October 31%‘, the assignee will lose their
scholarship and neither the second instalment of the
first year, nor the instalments of the second year will
be paid.

Direzione Attivita Istituzionali, Programmazione, Qualita e Valutazione
Sezione Mobilita e Didattica internazionale; Tel. +39 011 6704452 ; E-mail internationalstudents@unito. it
Page 6 of 12
—
i a

Pye
I br jot +

al =.

4 in
i

UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI DI TORINO

SECOND YEAR

First instalment

Amount: Payment:

4.500 € (gross of the 2022 October 31°: if
costs borne by the the assignee will have
assignee) achieved at least 80% of

the credits required for
the 1st academic year by
2022 September 3 Oth;
the weighted average of
the exam marks must be
equal to or higher than
27/30;

2023 March 31°: if the
assignee will have
achieved at least 80% of
the credits required for
the 1st academic year by
2023 February 28th; the
weighted average of the
exam marks must be
equal to or higher than
27/30.

Requirements:

- regular enrolment of the student in the 2nd year of
the Postgraduate Degree program

- payment of the first instalment of the university
tuition fees;

- achievement of the merit requirements listed in the
above section related to payments.

PLEASE NOTE:

In case of failure in meeting the merit requirements,
the assignee will lose their scholarship and no
instalment of the second year will be paid.

Second instalment
Amount: Payment:
4.500 € (grossof | 2023 April 30: if the assignee
the costs borne by | will have achieved 100% of the
the assignee) credits required for the Ist
academic year and at least 20%
of the credits required for the
2nd academic year by 2023
February 28th; the weighted
average of the exam marks must
be equal to or higher than 27/30;
2023 September 30": if the
assignee will have achieved
100% of the credits required for
the 1st academic year and at
least 20% of the credits required
for the 2nd academic year by
2023 July 31th; the weighted
average of the exam marks must
be equal to or higher than 27/30.

 

Requirements

- regular enrolment in the 2nd year of the degree
program by paying the due instalments of the
university tuition fees on the basis of the current Tax
and Contribution Regulations;

- achievement of the merit requirements listed in the
above section related to payments.

PLEASE NOTE

In case of failure in meeting the merit requirements,
required for the allocation of the 2nd instalment of the
2nd year, the assignee will lose their scholarship and
the 2nd instalment of the 2nd year will not be paid.

Applicants may withdraw by sending an e-mail to internationalstudents@unito. it.
In case of withdrawals received by 2021 October 31% scholarships will be allocated to the next suitable

candidates in the ranking list.

Direzione Attivita Istituzionali, Programmazione, Qualita e Valutazione
Sezione Mobilita e Didattica internazionale; Tel. +39 011 6704452 ; E-mail internationalstudents@unito. it
Page 7 of 12
UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI DI TORINO

ART. 9 — Competent office and relevant regulations

The office in charge of this announcement is “Sezione Mobilita e Didattica Internazionale” of “Direzione
Attivita Istituzionali, Programmazione, Qualita e Valutazione” at the University of Turin. For any further
information, please contact internationalstudents@unito. it.

This Call is available on the University portal: en.unito.it — Studying at Unito — Scholarships for
international students and it is also published on the “Albo online d’Ateneo” (University on-line Registry).
The Administration reserves the right to verify the truth of the information provided. Without prejudice to
the penal sanctions laid down in article 76 of Italian Decree of the President of the Republic no. 445/2000,
in the event of fraudulent information being discovered as a result of such verification, the applicant will
forfeit the right to the scholarship.

The present Call is translated into English for publicity purposes only. Personal data will be collected in
compliance with the European and Italian data protection legislation. Detailed information available in the
Attachment I — Privacy Notice For enforcing the Call, resolving any dispute and for all legal purposes only
the Italian version is valid.

Direzione Attivita Istituzionali, Programmazione, Qualita e Valutazione
Sezione Mobilita e Didattica internazionale; Tel. +39 011 6704452 ; E-mail internationalstudents@unito. it
Page 8 of 12
rj a ea
tain =

ier
—
7 Py

UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI DI TORINO
Attachment I - Privacy Notice

Statement on how student personal data is processed

General statement on processing students’ personal data in accordance with the General Data Protection
Regulation - EU 679/2016 and Board Meeting of 27 April 2016.

In accordance with Art. 13 of the EU Regulation 2016/679 (GDPR), the following information is available
in order to increase applicants’ awareness of the characteristics and methods of processing their data:

a) Identity and contact data
The data processing "Owner" is the Universita degli Studi di Torino (University), with head office in Via
Verdi 8 — 10124 Torino: certified email (Pec): ateneo@pec.unito.it - email: rettore@unito.it: legal
representative: The Dean (pro tem).

b) Data Protection Officer contact data (DPO)
The University Data Protection Officer can be contacted at: rod@unito it.

c) Processing purposes and legal basis
Data is processed in complete respect of the law, fairness, transparency, and within the purpose and storage
limitation, minimisation, accuracy, integrity, confidentiality and responsibility as per Art 5 of GDPR.

As process Owner, the University will process the data you have provided concerning yourself or your
family under Art. 6 lett. e) of GDPR “processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in
the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller”. In particular, data will be
collected and processed, either on paper or digitally, for university purposes including:

1) initiatives and orientation activities;

2) admission tests for degree courses (where necessary);

3) lesson, labs and seminars;

4) student requirements from enrolment to graduation, communication, storing and archiving all relevant
documentation;

5) tutoring initiatives;

6) statistics, historic and scientific research surveys (both pooled and anonymous);

7) support for students needing extra help;

8) support for disabled students and those with learning difficulties;

9) University admin, focus and research news about seminars, events and conferences;

10) * application of student contribution;

11) * benefits, grants and scholarships and other services concerning the right to study at university;

* Tn accordance with Art.14 of GDPR, the University will apply benefits to the student contribution by
using the ISEEU value, details of immediate family members, as well as all information provided by the

S.V. in the DSU, as it is pertinent and not excessive for this aim, directly from the INPS data base and
applying D.P.C.M. 5 December 2013, No.159.

Direzione Attivita Istituzionali, Programmazione, Qualita e Valutazione
Sezione Mobilita e Didattica internazionale; Tel. +39 011 6704452 ; E-mail internationalstudents@unito. it
Page 9 of 12
ety (he alt ;
Ce =.
= ae =

= ‘ “

_* jie
i

ee ea |
a a |

UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI DI TORINO

Under Arts. 9 and 10 of GDPR, certain categories of personal data that reveal racial or ethnic origin,
political opinions, religious beliefs and philosophies and trade union membership can be collected and
processed in certain situations as well as genetic data, biometric data in order to unequivocally identify a
physical person, data concerning health or sex life or orientation and personal data concerning criminal
records or security measures.

d) Recipients and possible recipient categories of personal data

Data processed for the purposes mentioned above will be shared with or made available to the teaching
staff, admin staff or those assigned to the relevant University offices as references for the protection of data
and/or system administrators and/or authorised to process, will receive relevant training from the Owner.

The University can also share personal data it owns with other public bodies should they process the same
data for their own official purposes as well as to all those public bodies who are obliged to receive it in
accordance with EU norms, law and regulations and insurance companies in cases of injury.

The management and storage of personal data that the University collects is kept on servers on University
premises as well as contract suppliers’ servers that provide services necessary for managing technical
administrative aspects where they could come across users’ personal data through routine work. These
suppliers are called “Processing officers” as in Art. 28 of GDPR.

The data can be shared with the following categories of recipients:

1) Ministry of University and Research

2) National Registry of students and graduates;

3) Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Embassies, Prefectures, Police headquarters, as in recognition of their status;
4) Public Prosecutor, Legal Council of State for managing disputes and disciplinary procedures;

5) Certifying administrations, to control alternative declarations under D.P.R. No.445/200;

6) Other Italian and foreign universities, during transfer to and from other universities;

7) Foreign universities for student mobility programmes;

8) Public and private bodies that manage payment of contributions for research and/or scholarships or that
promote studies and research, projects for university development;

9) Regional body for the Right to University Study (Piedmont) that manages the services for the right to
study (scholarships, accommodation, canteen);

10) Intesa Sanpaolo —1s the University’s chosen bank that manages procedures of receiving fees, university
contributions and payment of scholarships;

11) Consorzio Interuniversitario per 11 Calcolo Automatico — CINECA, for application procedures
management and maintenance for student advancement;

12) Other private, external resources for support in managing application tests and exams as in previous
point;

13) Consorzio Interuniversitario Alma Laurea, for surveys into graduate profiles and work status;

14) Insurance companies for injury claims, civil liabilities;

15) External public or private organisations for work, cultural, recreational and sports purposes;

16) Specific health organisations for courses and study that require access to health centres and hospitals;
17) CIMEA - Information Centre on Academic Mobility and Equivalence for the evaluation of foreign
titles;

Direzione Attivita Istituzionali, Programmazione, Qualita e Valutazione
Sezione Mobilita e Didattica internazionale; Tel. +39 011 6704452 ; E-mail internationalstudents@unito. it
Page 10 of 12
UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI DI TORINO
18) Dream Group OU — for the application procedure of students’ holding a foreign title.
e) Transferring data to a third country

Once collected, the data could be transferred to a non-EU country (Third Country), as part of the
University’s obligations and interests. The Owner guarantees that the non-EU transfer will only be towards
third countries that the European Commission (Art.45 GDPR) has deliberated as adequate or towards third
countries that provide a guarantee recognised as adequate as in Art.46 del GDPR. (For example, adequate
measures of guarantees have been adopted for Google services in the Educational sector; see Google’s
Privacy and Security section for more information which is available on the University website. Such
services imply transferring personal data to anon-EU country, eg Google’s “in cloud’’).

f) Data storage duration
Personal data concerning university records (eg name, date of birth, etc, qualifications, mid -degree course
exam assessment, final exam, rankings, reports etc) will be stored without limits in order to comply with
requests for individual certificates and requests for checks and as part of University obligations to archive

this information in accordance with current law.

Contact information (telephone, personal email) are stored for a period necessary to fulfil the purposes for
which it was collected and later will no longer be used by the University.

¢) Data rights
Users have the following rights under Arts.15, 16, 17,18, and21 of GDPR:
1. rights of access to personal data and all the information in Art.15;
2. right to cancel incorrect or incomplete personal data (Art. 16)
3. right to cancel (“right to be forgotten”, Art.17) personal data with the exception of those contents which
the University needs to keep, see F) or the University has a legitimate interest in keeping it for purposes of
public interest;
4. right to processing limitations (Art.18) ie the right to obtain processing limitation from the processing
owner when one of the issues in Art.18 occurs, except concerning the need and obligation to process the
data in order to provide the services on offer;
5. right to data portability (right can only be applied digitally), (Art. 20);

6. right to oppose processing of personal data that concerns students ( Art. 21) including profiling.

We should point out that the right to oppose cannot be taken into consideration where the University is
legally obliged to processes the data or it is in the public interest or related to its status as public authority.

Please write to the address below for more information: direzione.programmazionevalutazione@unito. it

Direzione Attivita Istituzionali, Programmazione, Qualita e Valutazione
Sezione Mobilita e Didattica internazionale; Tel. +39 011 6704452 ; E-mail internationalstudents@unito. it
Page 11 of 12
UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI DI TORINO

h) Complaints

Should the University not comply with the users’ demands under Art.77 of GDPR, it is possible to lodge a
complaint to the Controlling Authority (personal data Watchdog protection via email: garante@gpdp. it (
www.garanteprivacy.it) or report the University under Art.78 del GDPR.

j) Providing data
Users are obliged to provide their data. Failure to do so will prevent the user from completing the procedure
or accessing the service.

k) Different purposes for data processing
Should the Owner intend to process the data for purposes different to why it had been originally collected,

they should provide adequate information concerning the different purposes and any other pertinent
information.

l) Profiling

The owner does not use automated profiling processes.

Direzione Attivita Istituzionali, Programmazione, Qualita e Valutazione
Sezione Mobilita e Didattica internazionale; Tel. +39 011 6704452 ; E-mail internationalstudents@unito. it
Page 12 of 12
